>> Richard Feldman: We've now got
our const char for the DEFAULT_FILE,
which is called index.html.
We've got our two path function,
which takes in the request and
then actually mutates it in place,
and then ends up returning it.
And then back in main,
we have char *req = blah, blah, blah.
So then we're gonna call char
*path = to path (req), and
then this is gonna give us
the memory address of that thing.
It's gonna do those two for
loops that we wrote.
It's gonna translate all this back
into path.html, this is gonna return
the memory address of the beginning
of our brand new blog/index.html,
which as we know is in the giant
global mutable array that is memory.
It's actually like these bytes
right here because we went and
just stomped all over this initial request
and wrote the index.html right here.
And then got back this address right here
that's the beginning of this thing which
all works totally reasonably,
it's just really not what I
would do in most languages.
Like in JavaScript, for example,
strings are not just arbitrary ones and
zeros in memory.
In JavaScript, strings are immutable.
There is no way in JavaScript to say,
go in and stomp all over these bytes.
Go in and mutate the string.
JavaScript just doesn't support that, and
that's the case in plenty of languages.
But in C, they just like,
yeah, it's all bytes.
Go nuts, do whatever you want.
Now, if you run this code exactly as is
what you're gonna get, at least on Mac OS,
is you get what's called a bus error.
This is another one of those inscrutable
errors, much like a segfault.
Does anyone have any guesses as to why
you would get an error when you write
this code?
I'll give you a hint,
it's not because our logic is incorrect.
It's not that we made an arithmetic error.
It's not that we are doing
something that can't work.
It has more to do with where
this actual memory is located.
>> Speaker 2: I was wondering if it's
because you're tampering with data
section memory.
>> Richard Feldman: That's exactly right,
yeah,
it's because you're tampering with [LAUGH]
a data section that you're not allowed to
tamper with.
So remember earlier on,
way back at the beginning,
we talked about this string is
going to get stored in the binary,
in a special section of the binary
that's for things like strings.
Well, that section of the binary is marked
as read only by the operating system.
So, yeah, in theory, if we had this
string somewhere other than that section,
we could go in and like mutate
this thing and stomp all over it.
That would be totally fine.
But because this is a string literal
the way that we've written this here
the operating system's gonna be like,
well, hang on a second.
You're trying to stomp all over some
read-only memory in the binary that you
can't do that, no error.
And the error that it gives,
at least on Mac OS, is bus error.
I think it's a different error on Linux,
but
point is the operating system is not
okay with you mutating that memory.
Other memory you can mutate,
but not that one.
Now, because the way that we've written
this, it is read-only, this doesn't work.
But if we make one very slight change,
which is switching from
char star to array brackets here,
then it works just fine.
Again, I mentioned this
a little bit earlier.
It's not something we're gonna
go into a ton of detail on, but
I do wanna mention that essentially
what this syntax, brackets means is,
in terms of the actual contents
of what this thing has in memory.
It's, once again, just an address.
No problem, nothing fancy going on here.
It's just an integer in memory.
The real difference here is just that what
this is saying to C, like the C compiler,
is I want this to be a memory address, but
I want whatever comes after the equals to
be stored inside the main
functions memory.
Do not put it in the read only section,
like you normally would.
When I use these square brackets,
I'm basically saying I want
an array on the stack.
I want a local, like variable, like actual
part of this functions memory, as it's
running, is this thing, so I can mutate
it, I can do whatever I want with it.
So if you see C code in the wild,
that is using this.
That is a potential reason that they wanna
do that is they want to explicitly say,
I don't want this to be read only memory.
I want it to be local to the function so
that I can mutate it without having
my operating system blow up at me.
Okay, so to summarize all the things
we talked about in part three,
we started off by just looking
at how we define new functions.
And there was that little gotcha there of
the, if you define the function before,
sorry, if you call the function before
it's defined, you'll get a compiler error.
There's two ways to resolve that.
Either you can just move it up earlier so
that it's defined before it gets called,
or you can forward declare
it with a semicolon.
Just write out the type and the name of
the function, put a semicolon at the end,
either way works.
Talked about,
two different styles of iteration.
We saw the wild loop where we just sort
of advancing the memory address of
the start and the end of the path.
Talked about copying memory
with the memcopy function.
So we're just taking
some bytes that we got,
as long as they're not in the read-only
section, and just stomping all over them,
just saying, yeah, just here's my source,
here's my destination, boom.
Just put these bytes over here now.
And then finally,
we talked about read-only memory.
So putting all these things together,
we were able to take that part of the
request and translate it from slash blog
in the middle of this like get
an HTTP 1.1 all these headers, and
get back out the string that we want,
which is blog, slash index, dot HTML.
Whether or not it had a slash at
the end of the blog in the first place.
Cool, any questions before
we get into the exercises.
>> Speaker 3: I have
one semantic question.
>> Richard Feldman: Sure.
>> Speaker 3: I noticed in like
in the function you were writing,
we had both start and
end as addresses in memory, but
you were accessing them with
the brackets and like the zeroth index.
>> Richard Feldman: That's right.
>> Speaker 3: But
then incrementing it without doing
any kind of increment to the index.
>> Richard Feldman: Right?
>> Speaker 3: Why is that?
>> Richard Feldman: So
when we're accessing memory,
we're using this bracket syntax, right?
And we're saying, okay, so
start as a memory address.
Start bracket zero basically means go and
look at this,
the address of this memory and
the bracket 0 is essentially saying,
I want you to go get me whatever
the first element of that array is.
So this is where the actual type comes
into play and makes a difference.
So for example, if I said instead
of char star, I said int star,
what that would affect is that would
affect what bracket zero means.
So that would mean bracket
zero says int is 32 bits,
whereas char is eight
bits start bracket zero,
if start is a char star, means go get me
those eight bits and put them right here.
So give me one byte and put it right here.
If I change this to instar and change
nothing else about the program, well,
first of all, I'd get a compiler error
because it would say type mismatch here.
I'd have to cast it to instar, but
if I cast it to instar, it would still be
the same exact integer in memory, this is
the bytes of the beginning of that thing.
And that byte the address is exactly the
same, no matter whether I'm treating it as
a char star, int star, or
any other kind of star.
The important part here is that the
bracket zero is gonna say, either, go get
me eight bytes from char star, or if it's
int, it's gonna say, go get me 32 bytes.
Sorry, bits, eight bits or 32 bits.
It's basically a way of
saying take this address and
just go look at what's there and
give me the next N bytes.
And how many bytes we're getting is
determined by the type back up here.
So the bracket zero is a way to turn it
from the address of the array into one of
the elements in the array,
whatever that thing's type is by just
going and accessing that much memory.
Meanwhile, start equals start plus
one is working on the address itself.
So because there's no brackets,
we're not actually going and
looking at that address.
We're not going into that memory and
seeing what's there and
like reading some number of bytes
out of it, we are with the brackets.
We're actually changing
the address itself.
We're saying, yeah,
start used to be this integer.
And now we're just incrementing that
actual integer of memory address to move
it over one spot in the array.